hi friends hi everyone
i have a weird setup my computer is like
balancing
on this thing because my tripod broke
today um
hi you guys i'm just going to give
everyone a second to tune in
welcome to small x youtube channel i
haven't done a q a with you guys
in a while i feel like it's been a few
i don't know a few months um so if
you're joining us live today
let me know you're here say hi in the
chat just makes it more fun and then i
also don't feel like i'm talking to
myself you know it just makes things
more interesting and um hi lily
i apologize in advance if i sound
nasally you might
hear me cough a few times with a little
bit i'm like at the tail end of a cold
um
but you know i'm feeling good hi joanna
hi you guys okay
so i asked you guys what questions you
had for me
uh mostly on instagram and then there
were also a few from youtube
um and i wanted to start with the
youtube ones first since this is
my youtube channel and i want to make
sure we answer those questions
um and today we're just gonna be talking
about whatever
like if we go off on a tangent because
you guys have questions in the live chat
like that's totally fine
um maybe we'll just stick to whatever
you guys asked me on instagram
um but yeah we're just gonna hang out
for a bit and um
it'll be fun okay so i wanted to start
with the youtube questions
um there was one from let's see miles
miles said um oh uh
she asked he or she asked how can we
make our legs look longer without having
to put on heels because my lower body
looks just
disproportionate to my upper body um
there's a lot of things you can do in
fashion and just like how you style
yourself to make you look taller you
guys know
if you've been following small like for
a while i don't really focus on
this type of content like i don't really
write about like how to look taller or
like
how to make your legs longer um because
i really think we should embrace our
height and
it took me so long to feel comfortable
not wearing
heels and you know feeling comfortable
in my body
feeling confident and um you know
powerful strong
in a smaller frame um and so i don't
typically
talk about you know how to change that
um or how to embrace it however
i do love fashion and petite women's
fashion um
to an extent i'm not like you guys i'm
not like super into fashion but i like
dressing in a way that makes me feel
good
um and i do have some tips so as far as
what i feel like
elongates my legs when i'm like getting
dressed high-waisted jeans so these are
high-waisted
as you can see um the higher they are up
on your waist or if they come to like
right
above your belly button the more it's
going to give you that like
longer look um it also accentuates your
curves a little bit more
um which i like it's just uh like a
higher
like high cut jeans high cut skirts or
um
anything it kind of like cinches in at
above on the hip line it will elongate
your legs
that's one thing miles that i like to do
to just like
feel longer um and leaner and
also then i also usually pair it with a
crop top literally exactly what i'm
wearing is how
it's like how i dress every day every
top is like
cropped and every pant is like high rise
and it just
helps me and my proportions so maybe
that will help you
as well um and then we had a
question also um this is the only the
other the only other one i got from
youtube the rest are all from instagram
um from melanie is melanie here
hi melanie shout out to nani she said
she was asking about the 12 week
challenge we did in december
um she asked if i decreased the number
of calories from my maintenance calories
if so how much and how long is there a
way to do
it without counting calories making it
suitable
making it suitable and maintainable and
lastly have you experienced digestive
issues when cutting calories just in
general
and how did you get around it um there's
someone like staring at me through my
window right now
um so during the week
we hosted a fitness challenge in
december it was called well in 12. it
was like 12 days christmas 12 days of
fitness whatever
um we do not recommend going on a
calorie deficit for petite women as you
guys know
um there can be a time and a place for a
calorie deficit
the time and place would be if you're in
a caloric surplus
and you have a faster metabolism maybe
you've spent a few months
increasing your calories getting them up
to like you know
two thousand eighteen hundred something
that would be pretty high for a petite
woman
and um you can safely take away some
calories then
and still have a fast metabolism and
still um
feel full and satiated and have it be
sustainable and maintainable
however if you are at 1500 calories if
you're at like
1200 do not do a deficit do not do
a diet and i have so many videos on this
so
melanie if you haven't yet seen my video
on calorie deficits go watch that
it was really popular um you guys seem
to love that video it's just a really
honest
long-form video about dieting for petite
women
um it was from like four weeks ago so
you can go check that out
um is there you know a way to do it in a
sustainable way yes it's how i just said
and also
not taking away a huge amount of
calories at once so like
doing um taking away fewer calories or
my favorite way and i talk about this in
the video in detail is to increase your
movement a bit more
that way you can be in a slight slight
deficit without
eating fewer calories because we petite
women don't have a lot of calories to
begin with right like
you guys know we are already eating less
than other people because we're smaller
that's the same thing as saying we have
solar metabolisms
we just don't need as many calories as
taller people
um so the last thing you want to do is
take away more calories and only be
eating like
two meals a day it's better if you can
increase your movement a little bit and
this doesn't mean like
go crazy doing hit workouts and like you
know
stressing out about it it could
literally just mean increasing your
need which is your non-exercise energy
expenditure
what is the last word thermogenesis i
don't remember at the moment but it's
basically like
your step count throughout the day how
you know just getting up and moving more
it doesn't have to be like a structured
cardio workout or anything
as long as you're lifting weights and
your step count is you know
you can increase it by maybe two
thousand three thousand steps
per day or you know per week whatever
you can do that can go a long way in
helping you lose fat
in a sustainable long term fashion
without
going on a diet and crashing and burning
and hurting your metabolism damaging
your metabolism
you know having all these nasty side
effects of feeling like hungry and
um irritable and you know eventually
at the end of the road of dieting for
petite women is
is diminishing your metabolism to the
point where you can't lose fat anymore
and you can't take away any more
calories because you're at like 800
calories and
i've seen a lot of petite women come
into our
you know work with me and my coaches
that have really really slow metabolisms
just from dieting over the years
um and you can't damage your metabolism
you can't permanently do it you can do
it
temporarily but if you've been yo-yo
dieting for a really long time you've
been restricting
um you might need to spend you know six
months to a year
depending on the person restoring your
metabolism increasing your calories
um you know doing things to just get
your baseline calories back up to a
normal place
um so melanie that would be my advice to
you
you don't you might not necessarily oops
sorry guys
i need to put my phone on silence i
don't know why i okay it's on do not
disturb now
um so yeah it's it's better to melanie
to just find
other ways to get into a deficit or make
sure you have you know you're doing it
in a healthy way
um because you might not need to diet
i don't know all of your stats and
everything but um
you probably don't mostly petite women
that we work with we don't put them in a
diet unless
unless like i said they're really really
high they're eating a surplus and
gaining weight
they have a fast metabolism and then we
can afford to like safely take some away
um you also asked if i experienced
digestive issues when cutting calories
no but a lot of times if you are eating
a really low calorie diet it means
you're not getting the nutrients you
need
in a day you're not getting enough
protein to build muscle you're not
getting enough vitamins and minerals
you're not getting enough fiber
probably it's the fiber and you end up
um your digestive
digestion isn't as good because you
don't have the
fiber to bulk up your poo so it could
just be like you're just eating too few
calories and
your digestive system's like i need more
food to like move things through
okay i think i answered your question
melanie
um i'm seeing a ton of things in the
comments so i'm just gonna take a second
and look at them
um i'm also like sweating i feel like
i'm talking too fast
um wow it's so good to see you guys
there's so many people here um
okay so i'm gonna i'm gonna go with
these questions now because you guys are
the ones that are here
and um let's see uh
smrs said do you think it's possible to
create our own exercise routine by
ourselves or is it necessary to go with
a professional
um yes it is possible if you're a
beginner
it's going to be really hard you
probably won't have a lot of confidence
in what you're doing
you'll probably feel like you'll put
something together and then
not you won't you might not be sure that
it's like suited to your goals
and then you might do it for a few days
and then give up on it that's what i see
typically um and also in my own
experience like before i got my personal
training certification before i like
knew anything i tried to like string
together random workouts
and it never really like led anywhere
and that's because i just didn't have
the confidence i also didn't have like
the education or knowledge to know like
what how many times do you need to
repeat an exercise in a week
or a movement pattern to stimulate
muscle growth like a trainer will know
that and they'll put
you know x amount of push and pull
exercises
with x amount of rest they'll know the
optimal you know stuff but that said
you can still do something i have a
video that's ancient oh my god it's so
old you guys it's really cringe worthy
but it has
really good info in it still um it's
must have been from like
it was one of my first videos and it's
called how to create your own workout
program
i probably would change a few things
since then just because it's been like
years and i've
obviously continued to learn so much in
my programming skills but
it's a really good basic place to start
if you want to check out that video
hi zeta um karen said
oh she wears one inch this is going back
to the fashion thing karen said i wear
one inch height increase
one inch height increase insoles for
when i wear boots or shoes
i have my other petite women who put
like um
things in their shoes to make them
taller i've never done that but
more power to you if that makes you feel
confident thank you addie i got the top
from
princess paulie i think
kirscher williams hello
you said i'm 195 pounds at 5-1 i love my
curves but i hate my belly what can i do
to help in that area um great question
so if you want to lose belly fat
unfortunately
you guys have heard this but it helps to
have a reminder
you can't spot reduce um so that means
you can't choose where the fat comes off
if you start
an effort to lose fat it's gonna come
off equally
all over your body um or also it may
come off
um in different places depending
genetically but the majority of women
like 99 of women
are gonna lose it all over equally it's
gonna tend to be the hardest to get off
of the tummy like lower pooch area
um and the butt hips arms also are hard
to lose fat on
um but if you focus on your nutrition
lifting weights you can absolutely still
keep your curves
um for sure because when you weight
train it actually helps you build curves
that's why
um you know it helps you like build your
butt you can build broader shoulders so
that it can help you
you know have more of an hourglass shape
so if you're lifting weights and you're
working on your nutrition and you're
losing fat
you'll start to see reduction in belly
fat while also being able to maintain
some of those curves
um and also your body type it depends on
your body type right like
you guys know even though i'm like 113
pounds or something i am a curvier
petite woman like i just have always had
like
bigger thighs also my sport fencing gave
me some
you know really strong muscular thighs
and a muscular body type
um so if you're if you're built curvy it
probably will stay that way as you slim
down
um if you're not then and you're like
you're more
of like a like thinner body type um
when you start building muscle that
would help you build curves if you train
in a way
that supports that kind of depends on
you know how you're training and eating
lily you said i've been eating like 400
1400 calories and i stopped seeing
results it's just so slow now what
should i do continue eating and hope
that it will work
yes so this is why dieting doesn't work
in the long run
um and we kind of all have to go through
it like you guys know i many years
struggled with this like i
spent like 10 years ago when i was in
college i was like
dieting left and right and trying to
tone up in two days for an event and
then like
binge eating it was just like a train
wreck um
but i learned a lot from that experience
and
now working with like literally
thousands of petite women on these same
problems
um what you see when you decrease your
calories
for an extended period of time is you'll
see results at first like drop in water
weight
um and sometimes some muscle loss as
well sometimes some fat loss
um but obviously you're losing muscle as
well which is not good you want to
keep the muscle um you'll reach a point
where your progress just stops
it just you can't you can't like get it
to to
to do anything anymore so like at that
point lily you might like take away more
calories and then you feel even more
trash
and you know it's not working
um this is because your metabolism is
dynamic
and it's going to slow down to the
number of calories
or speed up to the number of calories
that you're consuming in a day so if you
go below 1400
it's now going to be your body's going
to start being more efficient it's going
to burn fewer calories in a day because
it's getting less energy
and it's going to hold on to fat it's
going to throw away muscle because
muscle is
very energy spendy like to have to
maintain muscle in your body
requires a lot of calories so what is
the first thing that's going to go
your body's going to be like oh we'll
get rid of this muscle because like we
don't have the energy
to maintain it right now and that's
where you end up in kind of that like
i hate this term you guys please don't
take this out of context i don't use
these terms but
this just kind of helps explain what's
happening
um this is what leads to the skinny fat
phenomenon and i used to be skinny fat
most of my life even as an athlete
because of the way i was eating
the yo-yo dieting not prioritizing
gaining muscle and stuff
so if i were you lily i don't know
enough about where you're at right now
like i would need so much more
information
um but if i were you and i had just
finished dieting and it wasn't working
i would start to research reverse
dieting and maybe start to slowly
increase my calories
start lifting some weights and try to
get back into a place that's like more
sustainable
um and then once you get up there you
have much more options you can
lose fat easier you can um
you know if you get high enough go on a
deficit in a healthy way and not
diminish your metabolism like you just
have more options when you get up there
um and i know it's hard i know it's like
the scariest thing and you don't know
how it's gonna pan out
um if that's the case i do highly
recommend hiring a coach if you feel
like totally lost
if you can afford it if you can find
someone that you resonate with
um because it's it can save you so much
time and emotional you know energy and
you get to feel better
sooner so and you learn a lot um like
there's just so much
value in that education if you find a
good certified coach
um and i will just say we're actually
opening up the doors to our program
tomorrow the petite power program um
we're doing an april
session of it um we're going to be
starting at the end of april
um but like i said we're starting to
enroll tomorrow um
if you want to book a call with me
one-on-one and chat
at all lily you absolutely can um this
goes for all you guys
you can go to smallettics.combook just
go to my website
you'll have the option to book a call
with me spots are kind of filling up
like i'm booked i think for today maybe
only like one slot open
um but there's there's more slots and if
you have a particular time you want you
can email me
and i'll open up that time slot for you
if i'm available um but yeah i would
just highly recommend finding like a
coach or a team of coaches or someone
that
can help you through that because um
it's your health and it's
you know so important it's the one thing
that we really have
right now so um that's my advice
um okay
let's see oh
down to more recent questions
hi red square from uk
okay um
said is it possible to strength train at
home and no equipment and get great
results
absolutely um a hundred percent
uh i have a video called three research
backed ways to get strong at home
with only a pair of dumbbells something
like that go watch that video after this
it has everything you need to know it's
really good but yeah over a quarantine i
trained from home every day for like six
months and i got
i was able to still get stronger it's
really just about using
time under tension tempo um
increased volume meaning more sets
not don't change the rep number just to
sets but yeah go watch that video
my ears just popped um okay
oh greenland you said i'm a beginner how
should i start my workout cardio
strength training
love this question for all my beginners
out there or even if you're in like the
first year of
your fitness journey um absolutely start
with string training
it can be intimidating i know i have a
free guide if you want to just
like if you want someone to help you get
started you want videos of another
petite woman like demoing the exercises
i have a completely free guide free week
of workouts at small lytics.com
guide start there and just get into
strength training there is
nothing better you can do than strength
training for fat loss
it's going to help you build muscle
which increases your metabolism
which is going to help you burn fat in
the long run and it takes a long time to
build your metabolism and build muscle
so the sooner you get started
excuse me the sooner you'll have results
um
i started lifting and like i don't know
i must have been like 22 or 23 it was
it was kind of after college and um
i'm now 29 i just turned 29 last week
and
i'm just now seeing the results that i
think i dreamt of
having like overnight like years and
years ago
um of course i you know the way i
stuck with it is i enjoyed the process
and i was really patient and i
you know there's hard times but if you
can enjoy it if you can just get started
now
five years from now you're gonna be
banging you're already banging but like
you're gonna get there it's just gonna
be it's gonna take a little bit longer
than like
all of the crap on the internet tells
you i know that there's like
there's so many things on instagram and
google that are like
overnight results you know shakes and
like fat burners and metabolism pills
and
you guys there is absolutely no
scientific evidence
that these these products are effective
let alone a lot of them aren't fda
approved or tested we don't even know if
they're safe
a lot of them are just caffeine that
like increase your heart rate and
it's just not as a strain on your heart
you don't want to have to deal with that
um so like i always tell it to you guys
straight like this is a science-based
channel and
um i work with registered dietitians i'm
a nutritionist
there's no easy shortcut here the
shortcut is putting in the work
but there is a smart way to train as a
petite and that's definitely
weight training prioritizing the
strength training before the cardio
and working on your nutrition um i
cannot emphasize that
enough and um for all my beginners out
there like
i am so proud of you for starting this
journey it's it takes a lot of
courage and guts um and you're gonna
wake up
you know in a few months if you started
recently and you're just like wow like
why didn't i do the sooner i feel so
good i feel so strong
um you're gonna start leading leaning
down or whatever your goal is
um it's really empowering so
yeah um
okay we have like a few more minutes
left on the live i wish you could get to
all these questions they're so good
uh ra uh rat rock
said april i'm trying to talk my friend
out of fat freezing instead
use the principles i learned in petite
power but she is getting frustrated with
losing fat everywhere except for her
belly any advice oh
i feel for your friend um i mean i'm not
gonna judge anyone who has
cosmetic procedures or um you know
you never know what someone's going
through but um
the fact of the matter is like you can't
really force people to see see
the healthier side of things um i mean
you guys know like even think about your
own fitness journey like
you probably were told to do
it something a certain way for years
before you actually like
went and did it and i'm the same like i
didn't i like didn't
follow what am i trying to say like
you can like lead a horse to a water but
you can't make a drink
you know what i'm saying it's just you
can be there for your friend you can
support them you can tell them like you
know
you know differently you've had a
different experience um but
it's emotional it's not it's like not
it's not logical like the decisions we
make for our body and like
it's often an emotional thing so what i
would say is
um rocks she's probably in a lot of pain
like i would ask her like i would say
like
you know i can't imagine what you're
going through like
how are you feeling and maybe just ask
her questions and um
it's probably more emotionally driven
than anything
and not logical so like hammering back
down on the science and telling her like
that type of stuff might she might not
hear it because she's like
she's not even she's not hearing that
she's like she's just feeling the pain
of frustration the pain of like not
losing fat after like
trying all these things and and that can
be very heavy that can
that can be so painful to carry um
so i don't know i might focus on her
pain with her and you know see how you
can support her as a friend in that
regard and
maybe help her find some resources or a
therapist or
something along those lines um yeah
it's emotional right you guys like when
i talk about fat loss
i'm not if any of you guys have come to
any of my free trainings you know that
i yes i teach you how to lose fat and i
do it very well i know
lots of my clients are you know toning
up um but
it's really not about the fat loss like
it's about your health and it's also
about
um that feeling of empowerment that you
get from
being strong and in shape and it changes
your life like
i cannot tell you like the pattern is
unreal
between people starting to get into
health and then seeing like
huge six successes in the rest of their
life like
it affects like your relationships your
you know your ability to get promotions
or like perform at your job
um it like changes your confidence level
and you end up acting differently you
end up like showing up in the world
differently
and that's why it's so like oh it's
rocky
oh good i was i was thinking it was you
rocky but i wasn't sure based on your
username
um but yeah anyways that's like you guys
know it's like
it's i do talk about fat loss a lot but
it's really like what drives me
as a coach and like mentor is more that
i know where you're headed once you like
start prioritizing your health in a in a
sustainable way and it's really powerful
there's just so many
amazing things um and by the way you
guys i will also say
if you're interested in learning more
about the science behind your metabolism
and you want like you want to see some
case studies of people i've worked with
of all age groups um you want to just
see like get some practical advice
i'm hosting a free training tomorrow
night i almost forgot like i literally
almost forgot i was doing this tomorrow
night and wednesday
um if you go to i'll have to put the
link below after this but
let me try to put the link in the chat
box um
it's uh let's see here it is
if you guys want to come it's totally
free i just put it in the chat box
um you can absolutely come
uh i do we talk about like we see like
real world application
of the things i'm talking about here um
other petite women's results what you
can expect
fitness nutrition it's really great um
so anyways if you're interested come to
that i'm going to be expanding on like
way more than i can in a q a here
and then there's actually a q a at the
end too of that tomorrow um and it's
live so it's at 6 pm eastern standard
time eastern standard time yeah
is it i never know it's es i never know
where we're at but
it's that um tomorrow and wednesday
night if you can make it
um okay we have time for one more
question
let's see um
this one i think is going to apply to so
many of you guys so i'm going to choose
this one
um gianniwella
asked hi april how do we how do you
strength train
but not get bulky i would actually just
love to know for you guys
who are um it
oh um oops upasana yes there are payment
plans but
like you can just learn about that
tomorrow on my website um
sorry i'm going to distract it now
now i'm going to try to um oh getting
bulky i want to know
show of show of hands in the chat box
you guys
um who here is afraid of getting bulky
from lifting weights
i'm just curious like how many petite
women in this chat and there's like
a bunch of us here right now how many of
you guys are nervous
about that like how many of you it's
really common and you wouldn't be alone
if you did
let me know in the little chat if that's
something that you are concerned about
um honestly like over the years trying
to talk to petite women
the um that's good there's sydney said
nope not me i know it's not a thing yeah
it kind of depends on the person like
some petite women have
don't fear it and then a lot do um like
erm said me
um so this is what i will say
a lot of petite women will look at me
obviously i am the founder of this
company and
i have i'm curvier and they'll be like
well and this is no offense taking like
some people are like i want to look just
like you some people are like i don't
want as many cards as you or whatever
listen like no you're not going to look
like me doing my programs like everyone
has a different body type
and different genetics and also like i
fenced for 18 years
and that changed my body like i did it
through puberty so it actually changed
the shape of my body
um in terms of my thighs and my arms um
it made me more like gymnastics-like
like i look
more like muscular um probably than i
would have if i never did a sport
um so it
like how you know if you're looking i
would say don't look at me or don't look
at any other influencer or
coach or figure on instagram and think
like
if you lift weeds you'll look like them
like you are your own amazing beautiful
person and it's going to look different
on you
like however you start training it's
going to look different
um i will say it is very hard to get
bulky and i
i know from experience just saying this
does absolutely nothing to change your
mind
you kind of have to just like experience
it yourself
um what does make you bulky is if you're
weight training
and you're eating in a caloric surplus
either not like unknowingly
or on purpose to bulk um you need to be
eating
over your maintenance calories in order
to bulk up
period most petite women are not doing
this they're like way under eating and
they're not going to put on muscle at
all
in like the can you know the number of
calories they're eating so
um it's very hard to bulk as women
yes um we don't have the hormones for it
really like men can do it i mean even if
a man was gonna get bulky
and he was like trying to put on muscle
it would take him like uh
you know a couple months it's not like
even a you know they're gonna
pop you know pop out the muscles
overnight um
but i would also just say like if you
need case studies come to the free
training tomorrow i have like exact case
case studies on this and then also just
look at like
i sometimes did this when i was new to
strength training just to remind myself
um i would like go to i would look at i
don't do this anymore but
i would look at you know athletes or um
like hollywood actors actresses who
trained for a movie like they worked
with some trainer like did some extreme
thing
like lara croft tomb raider i think that
body type is so bomb
um and you look at their training
regimen
and just like it's online like you can
look up some of their training regimens
don't do what they're doing because it's
extreme but
these women were like packing on
like they were strength training with a
trainer like seven days a week
and doing all these things and then like
you see they end up looking like toned
and
sexy it's not they're not the hulk after
that like
it's just really hard to bulk up unless
you
are eating in a surplus so um
best tip is to just get started you're
not gonna see results right away it's
gonna take some time
um and then if you like say you did
one morning wake up and you were like
the hulk which would never happen you'd
be
studied in labs across the world um all
you have to do is stop training
then you know to lose the muscle it's
pretty simple so you can always like
go back you know it's harder to move
forward but it's easy to go back because
that is the case
um all right you guys that's it for
today
um thank you so much for coming to
today's
um live q a please give this video a
like if you stayed all the way through
or if you just joined here
to support my channel i really really
appreciate it um please subscribe if you
haven't i know it doesn't mean a lot
for you guys um but it means so much to
have you in
in the community and to be able to chat
with you guys on a weekly basis
um and i hope you guys have a great
rest of your day thanks for all the
really intelligent engaged questions
and i will see you guys on instagram and
uh in next week's video
bye guys